# Project: Data Warehouse 

## Introduction:
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

## Description of the project:
The project on data warehouses and AWS to build an ETL pipeline for a database hosted on Redshift. To complete the project need to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift and execute SQL statements that create the analytics tables from these staging tables.
 
## The Dataset:
[This project used two Dataset:]
- Song Dataset - is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID
- Log Dataset - consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

## Starting the project:
Using the dataset song and log to create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables:

- Fact Table

songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong

```sh
songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent
```

- Dimension Tables

users - users in the app

```sh
user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
``` 

songs - songs in music database

```sh
song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
```

artists - artists in music database

```sh
artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude
```

time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units

```sh
start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday
```

## Steps:
- Write a SQL CREATE statement for each of these tables in sql_queries.py.
- Complete the logic in create_tables.py to connect to the database and create these tables.
- Launch a redshift cluster and create an IAM role that has read access to S3.
- Add redshift database and IAM role info to dwh.cfg.
- Test by running create_tables.py and checking the table schemas in your redshift database.
